---
url: "https://docs.aboutcircles.com/user-guides/circles-features/circles-transfer-and-rule-of-trust"
title: "Circles Transfer and Rule of Trust | User Guides | Circles Documentation"
description: "Your total balance is not the same as what’s routable to a specific recipient at this moment . The most important rule is the Rule of Trust: If Alice trusts Bob, then any person can swap it 1:1 for Alice (whatever Alice holds)"
---

copy
Copy
chevron-down
Circles Transfer and Rule of Trust
This guide will help you understand balances, send limits, and how the Pathfinder finds a route
When you open the Circles tab in the
Gnosis
arrow-up-right
app, you’ll typically see:
Total Circles balance (e.g., 8,602 CRC)
A Send flow that shows a Send limit (e.g., only 6,800 CRC available to send to a specific person)
That difference is expected. Your total balance is not the same as what’s routable to a specific recipient at this moment.
hashtag
Everyone creates their own Circles
In Circles, every person mints their own unique CRC (their “personal currency”).
So your wallet’s total “CRC balance” is usually a mix of CRC issued by many different people, not only the CRC you personally minted.
For example, your total might include:
some Gnosis Group Circles (gCRC)
your own minted CRC
and other people’s CRC
hashtag
The Rule of Trust
The most important rule is the Rule of Trust:
If Alice trusts Bob, then
anyone
holding Bob’s CRC can swap it 1:1 for
any CRC currently held by Alice
(whatever Alice holds at that moment).
hashtag
What does this imply?
Trust is not just “permission to receive.”
It creates swap capacity that others can use to move value across the network.
Transfers can become transitive (they can hop through trust relationships).
hashtag
Why you can’t always send your full balance to someone?
Your ability to send CRC to a specific recipient depends on two things together:
Trust relationships across the network (who trusts whom)
Current distribution of CRC holdings (who is holding which people’s CRC)
So even if you have 8,602 CRC total, the network might only be able to route 6,800 CRC from you to that particular recipient
right now
circle-info
Total balance = what you have
Send limit = what the network can currently route to that person through trust + available intermediate balances
hashtag
How Circles finds the sendable amount (Max Flow routing)?
Under the hood, Circles models the routing problem as a maximum flow problem (a well-known graph algorithm problem).
The network is a graph:
nodes = people/accounts
edges = trust relationships + swap possibilities created by who holds whose CRC
The solver searches through many possible combinations to compute:
the maximum amount that can be delivered to a chosen recipient
hashtag
Checking routes and limits with Pathfinder Pro App (Advanced Users Only)
If you want to see the “power tool” version of the routing calculation, use Pathfinder Pro:
Navigate
pathfinder.app.aboutcircles.com
Paste your address in the sender field
Paste the recipient’s address in the recipient field
Set Amount to a high number (to probe the maximum)
Click Find a path
Pathfinder returns the maximum sendable amount — this should match what the Gnosis app shows as the send limit
hashtag
Practical tips
Your total balance being higher than your send limit is normal.
Send limits vary by recipient. You may be able to send more to one person than another.
Send limits change over time as:
trust links change
people’s holdings change
routing opportunities appear/disappear
Previous
Migrate Circles v1 account to v2
chevron-left
Next
Daily Burn (Demurrage)
chevron-right
Last updated
29 days ago
Was this helpful?
