---
url: "https://docs.aboutcircles.com/circles-sdk/circles-sdk-overview"
title: "Circles SDK Overview | Circles Documentation"
description: "Circles SDK allows you to integrate Circles protocol into your dApp to implement avatars, profiles, token transfers and build trust connections for your use-case . Under the hood, Circles SDK utilizes deployed hub contracts on Gnosis Chain, pathfinder for finding trust network paths and profile service ."
---

copy
Copy
chevron-down
file-code
Circles SDK Overview
The
Circles SDK
arrow-up-right
is a TypeScript library that allows you to integrate Circles protocol into your dApp to implement avatars, profiles, token transfers and build trust connections for your use-case. Under the hood, Circles SDK utilizes deployed hub contracts on Gnosis Chain, pathfinder for finding trust network paths and profile service and Circles RPC.
hashtag
Circles SDK :
To use the Circles sdk, install the primary npm package
Copy
```
npm install @aboutcircles/sdk
```
Features:
Instantiate Sdk once and work with human, organization, or group avatars through a unified interface.
Fetch total and per-token Circles balances (demurraged and static) for any avatar.
Add, remove, batch, and audit trust relationships across the network.
Execute direct or advanced multi-hop transfers with automatic pathfinding and flow-matrix generation.
Check mintable amounts, mint daily issuance, stop minting, and manage ERC20 wrapper states.
Store, update, and resolve avatar profiles, metadata digests, and short names via the profile service.
Register humans, organizations, and groups while handling invitation escrows end-to-end.
Query trust graphs, avatar info, wrapper addresses, token holders, and group memberships from convenience namespaces.
Deploy BaseGroups, configure services and membership conditions, and analyze holders or memberships.
Compute liquidity paths, unwrap/re-wrap flows, and generate operateFlowMatrix payloads programmatically.
Plug in EOA or Safe runners to batch transactions and execute all avatar writes with consistent error reporting.
hashtag
Dependency packages
Package
Purpose
@aboutcircles/sdk-core
Core contract interactions
@aboutcircles/sdk-rpc
RPC client for Circles-specific methods
@aboutcircles/sdk-profiles
Profile management
@aboutcircles/sdk-types
TypeScript type definitions
@aboutcircles/sdk-utils
Utility functions
@aboutcircles/sdk-runner
Safe multisig wallet integration for executing blockchain operations with the Circles SDK.
@aboutcircles/sdk-transfers
Builds Circles SDK transfer payloads by combining pathfinding results with the data and RPC utilities needed to execute a transfer.
Previous
The Circles Stack
chevron-left
Next
Quickstart Guide for Circles SDK
chevron-right
Last updated
3 months ago
Was this helpful?
