---
url: "https://docs.aboutcircles.com/overview/circles-architecture"
title: "Circles Architecture | Circles Documentation"
description: " The contract manages names, symbols and metadata for avatars (humans, groups, and organizations) The name would be of 12 characters with a base58 encoding and store metadata for avatar profiles . The contract is deployed by Standard treasury and is utilized during redemption of group circles token ."
---

copy
Copy
chevron-down
folder-tree
Circles Architecture
An overview of different components of circles architecture.
A flow of architecture for Circles Protocol
hashtag
Circles V2 Core Components
Hub V2 Contract
An ERC-1155 standard contract for registeration of
human,
groups and
organisation avatars.
Manages trust relations, minting of personal CRC tokens, group currencies and demurrage.
Migration Contract
Allows transition from Legacy V1 hub avatars to V2 hub. Migration will lock V1 CRC tokens, stop minting V1 tokens and convert into V2 tokens.
Name Registry
NameRegistry contract manages names, symbols and metadata for avatars (humans, groups, and organizations).
The name would be of 12 characters with a base58 encoding and store metadata for avatar profiles.
Base Mint Policy
Base mint policy is standard contract is utilized group registration. Once registered the policy address is immutable for the group address. This is a reference implementation for minting, burning and redeeming the group currencies and developers can build their own custom policies as well.
Vaults
Vaults is a factor contract that holds the personal CRC collateral against the group currencies. Every group, there is single vault to query balance. This contract is deployed by Standard treasury and is utilized during redemption of group circles token.
Standard Treasury
The Standard Treasury handles minting and redemption of group Circles by managing collateral transfers. It ensures collateral is forwarded to the correct vault based on structured data from the Hub contract. Additionally, it verifies data during redemption to release or burn collateral as specified by the group's mint policy.
Previous
Why Build on Circles?
chevron-left
Next
The Circles Stack
chevron-right
Last updated
1 year ago
Was this helpful?
