---
url: "https://docs.aboutcircles.com/user-guides/circles-groups/validation-and-use-cases"
title: "Validation and Use Cases | User Guides | Circles Documentation"
description: "You can reach out to us via Telegram or Discord to get your group validated . The goal is to find a use case that naturally connects your group’s mission or activity with the core features of Circles . We encourage you to explore what's possible and make it your own ."
---

copy
Copy
chevron-down
Validation and Use Cases
hashtag
Get Validated
After you have onboarded at least 10 members into your Circles Groups, please reach out to us via Telegram or Discord to get your group validated.
You can reach out Circles team via
Telegram
arrow-up-right
ord
Discord
#Groups channels.
When people join your group, you can support your group by trusting and transacting in CRC to create an ecosystem of reciprocal value, where Circles can become the social and economic glue for your group.
Once your group has been created, the next step is to integrate Circles into what your group already does. The goal is to find a use case that naturally connects your group’s mission or activity with the core features of Circles.
hashtag
Propose a Use Case
Think about how Circles can enhance your community’s existing work. For example:
Joining your group in Circles could signal alignment or participation in your project or initiative.
Circles can allow your community to build a trust graph among members who already support each other in other contexts.
Circles groups can help members coordinate, reward, or recognise contributions.
hashtag
Brainstorm & Iterate with your group
We recommend gathering your core group and holding a
brainstorming session
What do we value as a group?
How can Circles help us circulate trust, care, or currency among ourselves?
How might we invite others into this ecosystem meaningfully?
hashtag
Example Use Cases
Here are some real-world examples of how communities are already using Circles Groups. These are just a starting point. Your group can create its own unique use case that fits your goals, values, or community needs. We encourage you to explore what’s possible and make it your own.
Event/Project
Use Case Description
Blockscout
Blockscout is launching a dedicated app allowing its "Merits" holders to redeem points for exclusive access to a private Circles group. This demonstrates how Circles can be used as a membership token, offering unique benefits and fostering a stronger community among engaged users.
ZuBerlin
ZuBerlin utilized CRC for local commerce, enabling members to purchase merchandise directly with CRC. This initiative highlighted CRC's utility for everyday transactions within a specific community, strengthening its internal economy and demonstrating tangible value.
ETHCC
During ETHCC, Circles groups facilitated micro-economies where attendees could buy ice cream using CRC. This simple yet effective use case showcased the ease of peer-to-peer transactions with Circles, fostering a sense of shared value and practical application at a large event.
Dappcon
Dappcon successfully integrated CRC by allowing participants to purchase conference tickets with CRC. This provided a direct, high-value utility for CRC, promoting its adoption among a tech-savvy audience and demonstrating its potential for event-based economies.
hashtag
Helpful Resources
Why Build on Circles
Marketing Assets
Circles FAQ
Previous
Technical Group Details
chevron-left
Next
Migrate Circles v1 account to v2
chevron-right
Last updated
1 month ago
Was this helpful?
