---
url: "https://docs.aboutcircles.com/user-guides/circles-groups/what-are-circles-groups"
title: "What are Circles groups? | User Guides | Circles Documentation"
description: "Circles groups allow communities to engage with a new fair currency protocol, earn rewards, and grow their networks meaningfully . Each group has its own currency, allowing members to exchange their personal CRC tokens for group tokens . This system enables real-world use cases and empowers communities by increasing the utility of CRC tokens ."
---

copy
Copy
chevron-down
What are Circles groups?
How To Create a Group?
Technical Group Details
What's Next?
hashtag
Circles Groups allow communities to engage with a new fair currency protocol, earn rewards, and grow their networks meaningfully. Groups have the freedom to define their own rules, membership criteria, and internal economies. Each group can decide who qualifies to join, whether it's based on location, shared values, participation level, or existing trust relationships.
Circles groups help communities build trust, collaborate, and create shared economic value. Each group has its own currency, allowing members to exchange their personal CRC tokens for group tokens. This system enables real-world use cases and empowers communities by increasing the utility of CRC tokens through demand and adoption. In the future, demand for group tokens can grow as local donors and businesses begin to accept them.
Why Groups Matter
Group currencies increase daily CRC usability
They promote internal circulation and demand for CRC
They power real-world use cases, all while staying connected to the broader Circles network
Key Takeaways
You only need 3 people to start a group
Group tokens are backed by the personal CRC of members
Groups set their own fees for users, which are completely customizable
The more your group uses and promotes its token, the more valuable it becomes.
Ready to build your community? In the next section, you'll find a clear, step-by-step guide to creating your Circles Group. We've broken down the process into easy-to-follow actions, ensuring you can set up your group quickly and efficiently.
Previous
Build a no-code mini-app on Circles using the Gnosis app checkout flow
chevron-left
Next
Create a Circles Group
chevron-right
Last updated
1 month ago
Was this helpful?
