---
url: "https://docs.aboutcircles.com/overview/why-build-on-circles"
title: "Why Build on Circles? | Circles Documentation"
description: "Circles is a decentralized protocol with a social and economic value for humans, communities and groups . Each user generates tokens continuously at a rate of one Circle (CRC) per hour, ensuring equal opportunity . This promotes fairness as everyone has a chance to accumulate Cir"
---

copy
Copy
chevron-down
kaaba
Why Build on Circles?
Circles is a decentralized protocol with a social and economic value for humans, communities and groups. Circles is not a crypto startup or product in general, but a collective effort to bring a fair distribution model for the money created, owned and shared by people.
Each user generates tokens continuously at a rate of one Circle (CRC) per hour, ensuring equal opportunity regardless of when they join. This promotes fairness as everyone has a chance to accumulate Circles.
Circles operates on a trust-based model, forming a social graph where users trust each other's CRC tokens. Trusted tokens become fungible, creating a dynamic economy backed by genuine social connections.
Circles integrates a demurrage mechanism, applying a 7% annual fee on held tokens. This keeps the currency circulating, benefiting the overall economy and promoting continuous engagement within the community. For most human users, the fee is offset by the steady income of 1 CRC per hour. Organizations always have to pay the fee.
By decentralising the verification process and leveraging human judgment for trust, Circles addresses the issue of fake accounts. This fosters a secure and resilient ecosystem, where the authenticity of each user is ensured by their social connections rather than centralised authorities or algorithms.
Circles allows creation of group currencies, enabling communities to share a currency that's backed by their members' personal tokens. This reduces risk, simplifies payments, and enhances market creation by aggregating individual tokens into a more stable group currency that's easy to integrate into existing protocols.
By joining the Circles developer community, you can play a crucial role in building a more equitable and inclusive financial system. You can build applications, support developers, and invite more people to join your trust network.
Previous
Group Currencies
chevron-left
Next
Circles Architecture
chevron-right
Last updated
3 months ago
Was this helpful?
